Add development section (#607)
mattermost/mattermost-developer-documentation: site/content/internal/development/tooling.md

---
title: Tooling
date: 2020-04-22T17:52:04-05:00
subsection: internal
weight: 10
---

> ## Server

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Mattermost Server
```

> In the server repository we are using [docker](https://www.docker.com/) images and [docker compose](https://docs.docker.com/compose/) to set-up the development enviroment. We have mandatory images to be run:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the [mattermost-server repository](https://github.com/mattermost/mattermost-server) we are using [Docker](https://www.docker.com/) images and [Docker Compose](https://docs.docker.com/compose/) to set up the development enviroment. The following are required images:
```

> - [Mysql](https://www.mysql.com/)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [MySQL](https://www.mysql.com/)
```

> - [Postgresql](https://www.postgresql.org/)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [PostgreSQL](https://www.postgresql.org/)
```

> - [Minio](https://min.io/)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [MinIO](https://min.io/)
```

- [Inbucket](https://www.inbucket.org/)
- [OpenLDAP](https://www.openldap.org/)
- [Elasticsearch](https://www.elastic.co)

> But we have added optional tooling that could be useful for developers

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We also have added optional tools to help with your development:
```

> ##### Dejavu

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Dejavu
```

> [Dejavu](https://opensource.appbase.io/dejavu/) is a UI for Elasticsearch that fills the gap left by Elasticsearch when they decide not to provide a UI or tool to visualize or modify the data you're storing inside.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[Dejavu](https://opensource.appbase.io/dejavu/) is a user interface for Elasticsearch when no UI is provided to visualize or modify the data you're storing inside Elasticsearch.
```

> To use Dejavu, execute `docker-compose up [-d] dejavu`. It will run at `http://localhost:1358`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To use Dejavu, execute `docker-compose up -d dejavu`. It will run at `http://localhost:1358`.
```

Defaulting the example to daemon mode to make it more copy-paste-runnable.

> In order to start using Dejavu you only have to execute `docker-compose up [-d] dejavu` and it will running at `http://localhost:1358`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To use Dejavu, execute `docker-compose up [-d] dejavu`. It will run at `http://localhost:1358`.
```
